Docs/ce 477 dataplances on ecs (#19010)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/ecs/deploy/configure-routes.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Configure routes between ECS tasks
description: >-
  Learn how to configure routes between tasks after deploying Consul service mesh to your ECS workloads.
---

# Configure routes between ECS tasks

This topic describes how to configure routes between tasks after registering the tasks to Consul service mesh.

## Overview

To enable tasks to calls through the service mesh, complete the following steps:

1. Configure the sidecar proxy to listen on a different port for each upstream service your application needs to call. 
1. Modify your application to make requests to the sidecar proxy on the specified port.

## Requirements

> Complete the steps to deploy Consul service mesh to ECS. Refer to the following topics:

Author: ```suggestion
Before you bind a network address, Consul service mesh must be deployed to ECS. For more information, refer to the following topics:
```

- [Deploy Consul to ECS using the Terraform module](/consul/docs/ecs/deploy/install-terraform)
- [Deploy Consul to ECS manually](/consul/docs/ecs/deploy/install-manual)

## Configure the sidecar proxy 

Add the `upstreams` block to your application configuration ad specify the following fields:

- `destinationName`: Specifies the name of the upstream service as it is registered in the Consul service catalog.  
- `localBindPort`: Specifies the port that the proxy forwards requests to. This must be an unused port but does not need to match the upstream service port.

In the following example, the route from an application named `web` to an application named `backend` goes through port `8080`:

```hcl
module "web" {
  family = "web"
  upstreams = [
    {
      destinationName = "backend"
      localBindPort = 8080
    }
  ]
}
```

You must include all upstream services in the `upstream` configuration. 

## Configure your application 

> Use an appropriate environment variable in your container defintion to configure your application to call the upstream service at the loopback address. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use an appropriate environment variable in your container definition to configure your application to call the upstream service at the loopback address. 
```

Minor typo
